---
title: 'Making my Academic Network using d3.js'
date: 2020-07-12
permalink: /posts/2020/07/blog-post-2/
excerpt: " "
---


## What is Academic Network

At the conference in Hangzhou, China, in 2016, my master's advisor, Dr. Bob Murphy, introduced me to his colleagues as his ``son''. Also, I met one of the students of one of the students of my Ph.D. advisor, Dr. Laura Kubatko, at the conference and she said to me ``we are like academic cousins''. it is a sort of comforting feeling because I felt like I was not alone -- particularly when I almost knew nobody at the venue. But this is not always the most wonderful thing because in some countries, such academic relationship plays too much role in the hiring process, making the selection process unfair for those who does not belong to such *lineages*. 

In my first year of Ph.D., I took a course with Dr. Andrea Wolfe and we had one of the assignment which is to trace our academic ancestry, something that illustrates scientists and scholars according to mentoring relationships -- often in the form of doctoral supervision relationships -- starting from us to our advisor and so on. It was a fun exercise and I was fascinated how different student came up with different formats to illustrate their history. I though an *academic tree* was supposed to be like a pedigree, like . It is also sometimes referred to as *academic genealogy* but this sounds misleading because it almost never considers genetic relationships. Just like phylogenetic trees are inadequate to illustrate the true relationship of organisms in nature and the networks seem to be a better alternative in evolutionary biology studies, I realized that academic tree is not going to adequate to visualize the true relationship of my academic lineages in the cases where they had more than one advisor. 


## Data collection

I used two sources to get the ancestral data. First, I used [**the Academic Family Tree**](https://academictree.org). This website had a lot of information but of course a lot of information that I was particularly looking for was missing. Interestingly, recent information was more likely to be missing compared to the older dataset. This probably reflects how the number of doctors increased tremendously in the recent years. I had to google some names, find their CVs, find their interview transcripts and so on. Starting from a few generations upward, the names that I was looking for started to appear in the Academic Family Tree website. In some cases, I used [**Wikipedia**](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Main_Page), mainly to confirm what was presented in the Academic Family Tree website when really interesting names appears, like Jerzy Neyman, Andrey Markov, or *Jesus Christ*.


## Visualizing data using d3.js

[**D3**](https://d3js.org) stands for Data-Driven Documents that helps to visualize (preferably) large data using HTML, SVG, and CSS and **D3.js** is a JavaScript library for that. Browsing through the [examples provided](https://observablehq.com/@d3/gallery), 






Up to you, hierarchies? networks?





## My Academic Network

<p><a href="/photograph/academictree.html" target="_blank">You can see my academic network here!</a></p>





## Applications in biology


